5.5 Notes

    Intellectual Property (IP) - One has rights of creation and invention from creativity
    Copyrights protect your IP
        People can’t use it without permission from you so people don’t plagiarise
    Legal ways of using things
        Open Source
        Creative Commons
            Gives free licenses that tell you what you can and can’t do with the IP
        Open Access
            No restrictions and no copyright laws or licenses restricting them
    Digital Devide
        Unequal access to technology

Github pages Action 5.5
1. License Type Notes

    Creative Commons is good for projects where you don’t care how people use your project
    Open Source MIT is good for projects where you can freely use code and distribute closed versions
    Open Source GPL is good for projects where others can use your code but not distribute closed versions
    2. License Choice
    My group picked the MIT license because the only condistions are that we must disclose the license and copyright info when we distribute the website, so we don’t have many restrictions allowing us to do much more with our project.

5.6 Notes

    Personal Identifiable Information (PII)
        SSN
        Race
        Age
        Email
        Phone Number
    Should not be given to everybody, only trusted sites/individuals
    Search Engines record the history of what you have browsed
    PII can help enhance a person’s experience with a website, however it could also be harmful
    Info is hard to delete as it is often saved somewhere that we can’t access
    Multi Factor Authentication
        Two way Factor Authentication through email, text, etc.
    Malware
        Damages a computer by taking it over
    Encryption helps stop and prevent unauthorized access and there are different tupes of keys
        Symmetric
            A single key used to encrypt and decrypt data
        Asymmetric (Public Key Encryption)
            Two different keys
            Public for encrypting
            Private for decrypting
    Degital Certificate
        Validates someones ownership of encryption keys
    Phishing
        A way that people are trciked into giving away personal information often through a malware that will takeover your PC
            Keylogger
                That record what keys you press to gain PIIs
            Rogue Access Point
                Wireless network points that give unauthroized access to secure networks

Github Pages Actions 5.6

    Describe PII you have seen on project in CompSci Principles.
  -Email
  -Password
  -Phone Number
  -Personal Photos
    
    What are your feelings about PII and your exposure?
    PII is good for keeping personal information, however if a stranger manages to get hold of your PII then it could have many bad results.
    
    Describe good and bad passwords? 
A good password would be a password with a mix of numbers, characters, capitals, and lowercase. You should also be able to remember it easily. 
     What is another step that is used to assist in authentication.
    Another step that is used in authentication is 2 factor authentication, which sends a confirmation email when someone tries to log into the account.
    
    Try to describe Symmetric and Asymmetric encryption.
Symmetric encryption is one key that all specificed users have that can be used in order to decrypt a message. On the other hand Asymmetric uses a public key for encryption and need a unique private key for decryption (connected mathematically).
   
    Provide and example of encryption we used in deployment.
HTTPS which is used in deployment. 
    
    Describe a phishing scheme you have learned about the hard way. Describe some other phishing techniques.
Spam emails that have fake links that you click on in order to get your personal info. Some untrusted websites also ask for your username and password, and steal your account when you input them. 